Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A. Programming language is a way of communication between humans and machine

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A.jdk is Java Development Kit and it contains: JRE JVM
JRE:is a part of JDK that provide the minimum requirement to execute java application and only allows running java programs.
JVM: is is basically specification that provides a runtime environment in which Java byte code can be executed.
JIT: it is in JVM

What is IDE?
A.An Integrated Development Environment is a software application that provides comprehensive facilities
to computer programmers for software development

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A.Eclipse, IntelliJ IDEA, Greenfoot, DrJava, NetBeans.

Explain the entire java life cycle.
A.
  1-Editing the program: the user types the program in text-editor. After completing editing the program,
                         the user need to save it as .java extension file.
  2-Compiling the source code: the file.java is the input into the compiler,
                             and the out put of compiler is machine independent which is bytecode.
  3-Executing the byte code:the Bytecode generated by the compiler will be executed by JVM.

what is class?
A. a class is  a template used to create object and to  define object data types and methods.

What is object?
A. Object is instance of a class by which can access the data members and member functions of the class.

What is the entry point of an application?
A. the main method.

Why main is static?
A.the main is static so that JVM can invoke it without instantiating the claas.
    also, saves the unnecessary wastage of memory.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A. Object class is the superclass.

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A.Path:is an environment variable which is used by the operating system to find the executables.
  Classpath: is an environment variable which is used by the java compiler to find the path.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A. An Interface only allows to define functionality, not implement it.
   Abstract class: allows to create functionality that subclass can implement or override.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A. we cannot create an object of abstract class or interface since they are incomplete class.
and we use it: interface name object name =new class name

what is Access Specifier?
A.It help us to restrict the scope or visibility of a package, class, constructor, methods, variables, or other data members.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A.OOP: stands for Object Oriented Programming
 feature of java OOP are:
  Inheritance: it is the concept that acquire the properties from a class to other classes
  Polymorphism: is the ability of the object to take many forms, and it allows to preform same action in mny different ways
  Encapsulation: is data hiding.
  Abstraction: is implementation hiding.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A. Java package is collection of classes and interfaces,
   the package that is imported by default is: java.lang package.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A. API:is Application programming interface, which is a software intermediary that allows to application to communicate
   API i have used so far are: facebook, amazon, checking weather on the phone...ect.

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A.java does not support multiple inheritance. because the subclass cant have many superclasses.
      it can make code difficult and produce errors

What is method overloading and when it happens?
A. Overloading: is when two methods have the same name but different number of parameters,
    and it happens during compiling.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
A.Exceptions:An exception is an event, which occurs during the execution of a program,
           that disrupts the normal flow of the program's instructions,
           and the try-catch is the simplest method of handling exceptions.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
A. that the particular member belongs to a type itself rather than to instance to that type, and it
    Static variables are used with the class name and the dot operator, since they are associated with a class,
    not objects of a class.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A. Final keyword is a non-access specifier that is used to restrict a class, variable, and method
   if the variable is declared as a final variable its value cannot be changeable.
   and final method cannot be overridden by sub class.

What is final, finally and finalize?
A. Final: is the keyword and access modifier which is used to apply restriction on a class, method or variable.
   Finally: is the block in Java Exception Handling to execute the important code whether the exception occurs or not.
   Finalize: is the method in Java which is used to perform clean up processing just before object is garbage collected.
or "Final means the value is final, finally is a block that is executed after catch block and finalize is used for garbage collection."

What is a constructor ?
A. constructor in java is a special method that used to initialize object,
   and it is called when an object of a class is created.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A. yes we can have multiple constructors in a class, but they need to have different parameters.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
A. if we don't have a constructor declared, during the object creation the default constructor will be called.

What is "this" keyword in java ?.
A. "this" is keyword refers to the current object in methode or constructor.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
A.The super keyword refers to superclass (parent) objects.
 The most common use of the super keyword is to eliminate the confusion between superclasses
  and subclasses that have methods with the same name.

What is JVM stand for ?
A. JVM stands for: Java Virtual Machine.

Is JVM platform independent?
A.JVM is platform dependent because we have different JVM for different operating system.

What version of java are you using?
A. we are using version 8.

What is JAR stand for ?
A.JAR stands for Java ARchive.

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
A.JDK: is a software development kit to develop applications in Java.
  JVM: executes Java byte code and provides an environment for executing it.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
A.JVM: executes Java byte code and provides an environment for executing it.
  JRE:is a software bundle which provides Java class libraries with necessary components to run Java code.

What is compile time and run time?
A.Compile time is the period when the programming code is converted to the machine code.
  Runtime is the period of time when a program is running and generally occurs after compile time.

What is heap?
A. hep is dynamic memory used to create instance or variable.

How java manage it's memory?
A.java manage its memory using heap, stack, and garbage collection.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
A.String is immutable class while StringBuffer and StringBuilder are mutable classes.
  StringBuffer is thread-safe and synchronised while StringBuilder is not.
  StringBuffer is faster than

What is Singleton class?
A.class that can have only one object at a time and it is used to protect class and objects.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
A.Serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte stream.
  Deserialization is the reverse process where the byte stream is used to recreate the actual Java object in memory.

when to use transient variable in java?
A.Transient is a variable modifier that is used in serialization when we do not want to save
   a value of a particular variable in a file.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
A.While loop it check the condition first then it runs.
  do..while it runs then it checks the condition.

What is Enum?
A. a special data type that enables for a variable to be a set of predefined constants.

What is Iterator?
A.An iterator is an object that has methods that allow you to process a collection of items one at a time

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
A.Integer

Why is String Immutable in Java?
A.String in Java is immutable which means once you create a String object the content of that string cannot be modified.
or "The key benefits of keeping this class as immutable are caching, security, synchronization, and performance."

What is constructor chaining in Java?
A.Constructor chaining is the process of calling one constructor from another constructor with respect to current object.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
A.serial is a single thread and it is deletion of the objects one after the other.
   parallel is multi-thread: the deletion of the object at the same time.

What is JIT stands for?
A.Just In Time

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
A.Garbage collection: is the deletion of unused object to clear the heap memory.
  heap space is the available memory after Garbage collection.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?*****
A.No, garbage collection does not guarantee that the programme will not run out of memory
  because it only clears space from deleting unused objects.
  Thus, we can have a programme free of unused objects and no memory space can be cleared.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
A.Stack is only used for the method while heap is used throughout the application.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
A. is a feature in the Java programming language.mIt allows an executing Java program
   to examine or "introspect" upon itself, and manipulate internal properties of the program

what is multithreading in java?
A.Multithreading refers to a process of executing two or more threads simultaneously for maximum utilization of the CPU.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
A.Synchronization in java is the capability to control the access of multiple threads to any shared resource.

What is Framework?
A.Framework are the bodies that contains the pre-written codes
   (classes and functions) in which we can add our code to overcome the problem.

What are the testing Framework available in java?
A.selenium, Junit, Cucumber, TestNG

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
A.JUnit is an open-source framework used to trigger and write tests,
  TestNG is a Java-based framework that is an upgraded option for running tests.
  JUnit does not support to run parallel tests, TestNG can run parallel test

What are the dependencies for this project?
A.mysql dependencies, mongodb dependencies, Junit dependencies

what is dependency injection in java?
A.Dependency injection is the concept in which objects get other required objects from outside.
  Dependency injection can be implemented in any programming language. The general concept behind
   dependency injection is called Inversion of Control.

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
A.The static binding uses Type information for binding while Dynamic binding uses Objects to resolve to bind.
Overloaded methods are resolved using static binding while overridden methods use dynamic binding.








